# How to search (BEXIS2 2.14)

#

Authors: Cornelia FÃ¼rstenau, Franziska Zander

Contact BExIS Team: <bexis@listserv.uni-jena.de>

Contact BExIS Data Curator: <bexis-datacurator@uni-jena.de>

## Table of content

[1. Search and filter options 2](#search-and-filter-options)

[1.1 Free-text search 2](#free-text-search)

[1.2 Search categories 2](#search-categories)

[1.3 Filter and sorting options in the dataset table
3](#filter-and-sorting-options-in-the-dataset-table)

[2. My data (only for BE-members) 3](#my-data-only-for-be-members)

[2.1 Datasets 3](#datasets)

[2.2 Requests 4](#requests)

[2.3 Decisions 4](#decisions)

## Search and filter options

The search is based on the information in the metadata of datasets and
publications. The content is not yet searchable. The following tools
support the search (Figure 1):

1.  Categories

2.  Free-text search

3.  Filters and sorting

<img src=".\images_search\image1.tiff" style="width:6.3in;height:1.6242in" />

Figure 1: Search and filter options.

### Free text search

Search for keywords or phrases with the search field on the top (Figure
2). The first box, dropdown list, can restrict the search to a chosen
topic (e.g., author). Enter in the second box the search term. An
autocomplete function suggests words and phrases after entering at least
three characters.

<img src=".\images_search\image2.tiff" style="width:6.29969in;height:1.93631in" />

Figure 2: Free text search.

### 1.2 Search categories

The search categories on the left side are based on metadata details
such as taxonomic terms or projects (Figure 3).

Note:

-   Search categories marked with a \* are only applied for datasets

-   Categories can contain more than five terms; click *more* to see the
    complete list

-   The number behind a term indicates the number of datasets containing
    this term

-   The listed categories and terms change according to your selections

<img src="C:\Users\c1zafr\Desktop\markdown\media\image3.tiff" style="width:6.3in;height:2.2293in" />

Figure 3: Search Categories.

The selected terms of the free text search and the categories are
displayed under the free text search field. If you picked more than
three terms of the same category, you only see the chosen category but
not the terms. Click on the displayed number of terms of the category
and a window will open showing your selection for this category. Filters
can be deselected just by clicking on them.

<img src="C:\Users\c1zafr\Desktop\markdown\media\image4.tiff" style="width:6.2999in;height:2.29299in" />

Figure 4: View of your search.

### 1.3 Filter and sorting options in the dataset table

The table in the center of the page lists all searchable data sets and
publications based on the account settings (e.g., guest or member). The
table shows the ID, title, project as well as start and end date of the
datasets. With a right-click on the header, the selection of the columns
is changeable. Further, the type (dataset or publication) and the
abstract can be shown.

If you are using the search options (1) free text search or (2)
categories, the table displays the result of this search.

The following sorting or filtering functions are available:

-   To sort single columns click on the column header

-   To filter the content of a column click on the filter-symbol; then
    enter a search term and choose an appropriate option (e.g., is equal
    to, contain, is greater/less than)

## My data (only for BE-members)

The *my data* menu is only for BE-members. Here you find a summary of
(Figure 5):

-   *Datasets* - your datasets and datasets to which you have full
    access (metadata and primary data) *- my datasets*

-   *My requests* - your requested dataset

-   *Decisions* - requests of other BE-members for your datasets

-   *Publications* - all publications archived in BEXIS2

All four subcategories have a search field and the listed datasets can
be sorted.

### 2.1 Datasets

This page lists all datasets to which you full access that means you can
see and download metadata as well as primary data (and all other dataset
components). For a better overview, the datasets are classified in the
following subcategories based on the rights (Figure 5):

-   *PI/Contact*: all datasets for which you have the right to grant
    access to other BE-members; usually the PI and the contact person

-   *Own/Edit*: all datasets which you can edit; the metadata creator,
    data creator, and project leader have edit rights

-   *Download*: all datasets to which you have full access; this
    includes your data, central data, public data, and all datasets to
    which you have got access by the owner

Additional information about the completeness of the metadata and the
primary data type (tabular data or not) are provided. To view a dataset
click on the view-button (eye).

<img src="C:\Users\c1zafr\Desktop\markdown\media\image5.tiff" style="width:6.3in;height:1.74514in" />

Figure 5: My data.

### 2.2 Requests

Here you find a list of all your requested datasets with some general
information (Id, title, and abstract) and the request date and status.

### 2.3 Decisions

The page lists open requests for your datasets. You can accept or
decline the request by clicking the buttons on the right.
